[Edit] AI: BEAM Search (#7339)
Codecademy/codepedia-content: content/ai/concepts/search-algorithms/terms/beam-search/beam-search.md

Trace the path from **S** to **G**:
![Final-path](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/BEAM-Search-final-path.png)

## Pseudocode for Beam Search Algorithm

```plaintext

> function BEAM_Search(start_node, goal_node, beam_width):
>   open_list ← [start_node]
>   closed_list ← []
> 
>   while open_list is not empty:
>     if goal_node in open_list:
>       return reconstruct_path(goal_node)
> 
>     candidates ← []
> 
>     for node in open_list:
>       closed_list.append(node)
>       neighbors ← get_neighbors(node)
> 
>       for neighbor in neighbors:
>         if neighbor not in closed_list:
>           evaluate(neighbor)
>           candidates.append(neighbor)
> 
>     sorted_candidates ← sort(candidates)
>     open_list ← sorted_candidates[0 : beam_width]
> 
>   return failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function BEAM_SEARCH(start_node, goal_test, beam_width, max_depth):
    current_level ← [start_node]
    depth ← 0
    
    while current_level is not empty AND depth < max_depth:
        all_successors ← []
        
        // Generate all successors from current level
        for each node in current_level:
            if goal_test(node):
                return SUCCESS (node)
            
            successors ← get_successors(node)
            for each successor in successors:
                successor.score ← evaluation_function(successor)
                all_successors.append(successor)
        
        if all_successors is empty:
            return FAILURE
        
        // Sort all successors by their scores (best first)
        sorted_successors ← sort(all_successors, by=score, descending=True)
        
        // Keep only top beam_width candidates for next level
        current_level ← sorted_successors[0 : beam_width]
        depth ← depth + 1
    
    // Check final level for goal
    for each node in current_level:
        if goal_test(node):
            return SUCCESS (node)
    
    return FAILURE
```
